# Mega Man X2

## Where is the options page?

The [player options page for this game](../player-options) contains all the options you need to configure and export a 
config file.

## What does randomization do to this game?

Access to each Maverick Stage, weapons obtained from Mavericks and upgrades obtained from Dr. Light's capsules 
are randomized in the multiworld. The requirements for entering X-Hunter Base can be randomized to require different 
amount of items (Medals from Mavericks, Weapon count, Upgrade count, Heart Tank and Sub Tank count).

The game will be marked as completed when Sigma Virus is defeated.

## What Mega Man X2 items can appear in other players' worlds?
- Maverick Access Codes
- Maverick Weapons
- Armor Upgrades (Helmet/Arms/Body/Legs)
- Heart Tanks
- Sub Tanks
- 1-Ups
- HP Refill

## What is considered a location check in Mega Man X2?
- Defeating a Boss Enemy
- Using a Dr. Light Capsule
- Collecting a Heart Tank or a Sub Tank item
- Optionally, collecting a Pickup Item (1-Up/HP/Weapon) present within stages

## When the player receives an item, what happens?
A sound effect will play based on the type of item received, and the effects of the item will be immediately applied, 
such as unlocking the use of a weapon mid-stage. If the effects of the item cannot be fully applied (such as receiving 
a HP refill while at full health), the remaining are withheld until they can be applied.

## Quality of Life
The implementation features several enhancements to the original game's systems which attempt to make Mega Man X2 a 
much smoother experience.
- **Checkpoint Selector:** Allows you to travel to any previously visited checkpoint in the game by selecting a 
checkpoint at the stage select screen. Switch between different checkpoints with `L` or `R`.
- **Enhanced Helmet:** By getting the Helmet Upgrade item, the Checkpoint Selector will allow you to travel to any 
checkpoint regardless if you have visited them or not.
- **X-Hunter Base Selector:** You can switch which X-Hunter Base level you will travel to by pressing `SELECT` at the 
stage select screen.
- **X-Hunter Selector:** You can decide which X-Hunter you will face by pressing `SELECT` at the stage select screen.

## What is EnergyLink?
EnergyLink is an energy storage supported by certain games that is shared across all worlds in a multiworld. In Mega Man 
 X2, when enabled, deposits a certain amount of Energy to the EnergyLink pool. Only a quarter of the collected Energy is 
successfully sent to the EnergyLink pool.

Energy from the EnergyLink pool can be transmuted into HP and Weapon Energy with the same conversion rate. 
The transmutation can happen within the game itself and the client. In the client, you use `/heal <amount>` to request 
a heal by `<amount>` or use a `/refill <amount>` to request a weapon refill. In the game, you press `SELECT` on the item 
you want to request a refill of during the pause menu screen (X.Buster and G. Crush. will provide HP).

Weapon refills will be applied to either the current weapon, the current selected weapon on the pause menu or will be 
filled from top to bottom according to the pause menu's order if none of them are selected or being used.

## Boss weakness plando
You can enforce a singular weakness into a boss with this option, ignoring weaknesses generated by the world in case 
weaknesses are shuffled. The format is the following:
```yaml
boss_weakness_plando:
    Wheel Gator: Lemon (Dash)
    Crystal Snail: Magnet Mine
```
This will force `Wheel Gator` to receive increased damage from the basic shot performed when dashing and will force 
`Crystal Snail` to receive increased damage from Magnet Mine.

## Unique Local Commands
- `/resync` Deletes the current saved data in the server which will force every item to be given again. Only has 
effect during the title screen.
- `/heal <amount>` Only present with EnergyLink. Request a HP refill using EnergyLink's pool.
- `/refill <amount>` Only present with EnergyLink. Request a Weapon Energy refill using EnergyLink's pool.
- `/trade <amount>` Exchanges HP for Weapon Energy. The conversion rate is 1:1.
