# Wario Land 4

## Where is the options page?

The [player options page for this game](../player-options) contains all the
options you need to configure and export a config file.

## What does randomization do to this game?

The 72 jewel pieces, 16 CDs, one full health item, and eight of Wario's moves can be shuffled into
the item pool where any player can find them. You may reduce the number of jewel pieces available,
in which case additional full health items, traps, and other in-level pickups can be found.

As in the vanilla game, you must find your items in the levels and then escape the level through the
entry portal in order to keep themâ€”if you die or give up from the pause menu, the item will be lost
and you will need to pick it up again. Other players' itemes do not have the same behavior by
default, but you can make all items behave this way by setting your "Send Locations to Server"
option to "On Escape."

The main passages are now open from the start and don't require defeating the first boss, Spoiled
Rotten. There is an option to allow access to the levels in each passage without needing to find
Keyzer in the level before. With another option, you can also exit the level without needing to
trigger the escape by pressing the frog switch.

In Golden Treasure Hunt and Golden Diva Treasure Hunt, the treasure chests in the boss rooms
additionally contain shuffled items, and the golden treasures they originally contained are
somewhere else in the multiworld. In the former, the Golden Diva's chamber is locked, and you
instead escape with the treasure by entering the Sound Room on the north side of the pyramid. The
number of treasures you have and what you need is displayed in the top left corner where the number
of minigame coins you have used to be.

## What is the goal of Wario Land 4 when randomized?

Defeat the Golden Diva and steal the Golden Pyramid's treasure!

In Golden Treasure Hunt, find a certain number of golden treasures and escape the pyramid through
the emergency exit in the Sound Room.

In Golden Diva Treasure Hunt, find the treasures scattered in the multiworld and then defeat the
Golden Diva. Don't take too long, or else it won't count!

## Which items can be in another player's world?

Any shuffled item can be in other players' worlds. The twelve golden treasures can optionally be
shuffled into only your own world.

## What does another world's item look like in Wario Land 4?

Other games' items will look like Archipelago logos. When you collect an item from a box, either its
name or its recipient's name will be displayed in the bottom right corner of the screen, depending
on your "Send Locations to Server" option.

## When the player receives an item, what happens?

If you receive a jewel piece or CD in a level, the game will show you what you got using a similar
display to when you take one from a chest. Unlike when the item is in a box, the item will be
available to be used immediately, rather than only after exiting the level. On the pyramid screen,
there will be a display using a pop-up window to tell the player what they received. If the item is
junk, Wario will receive it the next time he enters a level, or immediately if he's already in one.
